SQUO

In the status quo, pharmaceutical companies are using indiginous knowledge to great effect for pharmeceutical development with little renumeration for indiginous groups. Their is a large economic incentive to exploit the previous discoveries as nature has found many more solutions than organic chemists have. The value of the pharmaceuticals developed from indiginous knowledge has been estimated to be 43 Billion dollars, with further economic value coming from drastically accelerated pharmeceutical development in plant derivatives, estimated to be ~4X faster (Reid 2010, p. 80), with even small stakes in this large pie having substantial ramifications for communities. 
Ethical and legal issues in partitioning the revenues resulting from the knowledge of indiginous peoples involves a broad range of issues from the patent systems difficulties assimilating traditional forms of knowledge and ownership, the difficulties small developing nations have regulating the actions of multinational corporations inside their borders, and the trade off between protecting the indiginous claims to property rights and the potentially great bennefits to society at large. 

This paper will first consider the status quo handling of ethnopharmacology and then consider several possible alternatives that are suggested by relevant topic literature. 

In the status quo, patents are typically not granted for traditional knowledge.The exact statutory requirements for receiving a patent are 
-Usefullness
-Nonobviousness
-Newnewss 
-The "First to Invent" standard, which requires the actual inventor of the knowledge persue the patent. 
(Reid 2010, p. 81). Traditional knowledge has difficulties has difficulties fitting into [[[ALL, SOME?]]] of these requirements. 

Applying the newness standard inpatent law to traditional knowledges is difficult as often prior art is docuemnted oraly. Information documented in the oral tradition is typically not admissable as evidence, and the exact date of disclosure may be difficult to determine. (Newcity, 2009, p. 399). While in some jurisdictions the Oral tradition, such as those modeled after the European Patent Convention's approach, the oral tradition is only considered valid if previously recorded or if a stenographic recording of the speech is available. (NewCity, 2009, p. 400). In the U.S. Patent system, while establishing evidence of knowledge or use of information by US citizens is sufficient to render a patent invalid, these protections are not extended to citizens of other nations. (35 USCS ยง 102). 
The "First to Invent" requirement in the United States further increases the difficulty of incorporation native knowledge rights in the Patent system. The person who is applying for a patent must be the inventor of the subject matter themselves. Since the traditional knowledge is typically aquired over a long period of time and many generations, most indiginous groups cannot meet the requirements of this patent. 

A confounding factor is the sovereign claim to posession of IP derived from the biodiversity of its country, many of which have specific legislation regulating the development of commercial products from the biological resources of the nation. For example, the South African Biodiversity Act requires a permit for any bioprospecting with agreeements to share revenue derived from any bioprospecting or for any biological material to be exported for the same reason. (Mueller 2011, p. 396). 

15 Tex. Wesleyan L. Rev. 357. Retrieved from http://www.lexisnexis.com/hottopics/lnacademic   (NewCity 2009) http://goo.gl/kxscI

18 Sw. J. Int'l L. 393. Retrieved from http://www.lexisnexis.com/hottopics/lnacademic  (Mueller 2011) http://goo.gl/rFmAj

34 Am. Indian L. Rev. 77. Retrieved from http://www.lexisnexis.com/hottopics/lnacademic (Reid 2010) http://goo.gl/rm2YF

35 USCS ยง 102, UNITED STATES CODE SERVICE, Retrieved from http://www.lexisnexis.com/hottopics/lnacademic